(upbeat whistling)
Dealing with multiple promises is something
that I've frequently run into when I'm writing code
and you sort of need to be careful here
with this whole await thing.
And the reason behind that is because
not always do you want to do one thing after another,
often you want to maybe fire off six or seven
tasks at the exact same time and then
wait for them all to come back at the end of the day.
So right here I've got my fetch coming off and I'm
going to go off to github to grab my data
and then after that I'm going to go and grab
Scott Talinski's github data.
So what I could do here is I could just pop a
quick await in front of both of them,
but that's going to take much longer than it has to
because it's going to finish this one,
before it even starts this one.
Ideally what we want is for them both
to be gone at the exact same time.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to store
not the returned results,
which is what await would give us,
but we're gonna store the promise in a variable
called promise one, P1.
And then a variable called P2.
Now I'm down here, how do I wait for both of them
to come back?
Well the way that we do that is we can make a variable,
let's call it response and we wrap it in a promise.all,
and promise.all takes an array of promises.
So we'll say promise one and promise two.
What that's gonna do is it's sorta gonna make one
mega promise out of these two smaller ones
and the mega promise will not resolve itself
until both promises, promise one and promise two come back.
So if wesbos comes back in a second,
but Scott's takes 10 seconds,
the whole thing is gonna take 10 seconds altogether.
And of course we need to await that,
so we pop await in front of it and then we will
console.log the response there.
So now if I refresh you'll see response, response,
this is not the end user data you may remember
that this fetch requires us to do sort of a
two parter, where first you fetch the data,
and then you turn it into json which turns another promise.
So there's a couple ways around that.
First and probably easiest is you can just tack a
.then onto each of these so dot then you get your response
and you return the response .json,
you could just use R there to keep it short.
And I'll tack both of that onto each one.
And what that will do is this promise right here
will actually be the second promise that gets returned
right here, not the actual initial fetch one.
Let's see if that works.
There we go, refresh and then we've got --
Oh! No, that's not our data, why is it not working?
Because we're returning the function json,
make sure you put parenthesis on the end
of our json there.
There we go.
Now open that up, it's an array wesbos and stalinski.
We've got both of 'em.
The other way that you could do it if you don't feel like
tacking a then onto each of them,
is you could take that array of promises,
and map over them.
So here we have is, we await our promise and this is
actually going to be an array and what we could do is
then turn that into another thing that we promise all.
We'll say const data, promises,
you can take the response promises and we just map over
each one.
For each response we're gonna return the response
.json and then this data promises,
if we were to console.log that,
it's not gonna be our data just yet,
but you're gonna see that it is an array of
two extra promises which is turning it into json.
So then we could say const wesAndScott is equal to
promise.all and we'll give it our data promises
and of course we wanna pop an await
in front of all of that.
Then finally we can console.log wesAndScott,
open that up there's the same data that we actually have.
That's totally up to you however you like it.
One other thing I really like to use in conjunction of this
is array destructuring because
I made this variable wesAndScott,
but what we can do here instead is destructure those values
immediately into separate variables wes and Scott
and then we have separate variables called wes and Scott
and then you'll see watch this.
Now we have two separate variables that each have
their actual data inside of it.
That's really handy, especially if you have
an array of values which you need you need to fire off
an ajax request for each of the values.
Let's do another little example here.
Let's comment that out,
and we'll make a function called get data.
And I'll just run the get data,
on load and maybe actually we'll pass it
an array of github names.
So wesbos, and stalinski.
How do you spell his name?
There we go.
And then this is going to take in an array of names.
Now, what you could do here is instead of manually doing
P1, P2, we could say const promises,
is equal to names.map.
So for each name, we're going to map over the name,
and from that we're going to return a fetch.
And that fetch is going to be going to,
I'll just take this URL now
and replace my name with the name property that
we're looping over each one and then we can also
if we'd like we can tack a .then on the end where
the response is turned into json right away.
And then finally all we have to do is
await all the promises.
We'll say const wes, Scott is equal to await,
promise.all and we'll pass it that list of actual promises.
That's really simple, let me go over --
Actually let's make sure it works first.
Oh no!
Then is not a function.
That's because I put the then on the wrong side
of the quote.
And then I could console.log, wes and Scott,
separately, give it save and then when I refresh I see
two separate variables.
What's cool about that is that
I can also just say people and put that into an array
itself if we don't know how many people are coming in
and if we were to add a third,
like darcyclarke,
it's gonna automatically just make three requests for us
each with all of them you can go to the network tab
and see all three of our actual requests have been made.
There's a lot you can do with all of the map
and reduce and all of those other methods
that we learned about in our java script 30 course.
And they can be used in conjunction with a sync,
await and a promise.all.
Last one I want to show you is you can also use
promise.race, we learned about this in a previous video.
For example, if you had multiple requests going off
at once and you only cared for the quickest one to
come back then you could use promise.race and that will
resolve as soon as the first promise of the array
of promises that come back.
I've never actually had to use that in a real world
situation but there could be some use cases there
where you're picking multiple URL's and you
only care about the fastest one to get back to you.
Other than that, I will see you in the next one.